Hello again wonderful God people in this video.
We're going to put some furniture into our level and we're going to do it with a tile sheet.
So before we go any further let's talk about why we're putting furniture in.
There's a few things one the levels are kind of bare right the little bit empty.
So let's put some stuff in to draw the iron which is also going to make a level feel more believable.
That's going to improve what we might call player investment or buying in.
Right.
They're going to feel like they're part of that world if that world feels like a real world.
But there's also a gameplay reason the players can have places to hide.
That's going to massively improve tension.
If I conduct buying a plant as a guard just saunters past it doesn't seem me.
So that means that the furniture is going to have to block NPC line of sight.
OK.
So how do we get that started.
Well let's start a new scene as you might expect.
And we need to make the route ain't no 2D.
Why.
Because we're setting up a tile set just like we have before.
And just like with other tile sets there's a few things we need to get right.
First off let's name it let's call this furniture.
And the next node down is going to have to be a sprite.
And if we look inside graphics tile sheets we use tile sheet complete.
If you to use the double sided the double sided the two times when the double sized one go for it.
And here we have our tile.
Well this tiles way too big.
So what we have to do is we use a region of the tile.
Now we're going to do this because if God only has one of these to load in as opposed to a couple of
hundred for example that's going to cut down on load times and resource use.
And the reason is it's going to treat it as one asset.
And once I just look at this little bit of the assets and to get that little bit working within his
region so that's enable the region and the whole thing's vanished.
But if we press texta region down here this looks very much like the auto tile menu but instead of saying
okay your one time you're not at all.
All we're saying is this is the part of the texture we care about so let's practice.
Let's take a nice office chair.
So I'm going to put on SNAP merge Smith's nice and easy Anema set the grid to 64 by 64 because it's
our tile size.
And let's pick a nice office chair.
Which one do we want.
Say this looks like a decent officer.
Actually I use the yeah I like arms on our faces when we scroll down you'll see it's already changed.
So let's move that down here.
And we now have a split now.
We also want things like collision to make collision work on a tarmac.
Remember we have to do this in the right order the Sprite has to be the parent.
Underneath that we're going to put our body in this case it's going to be a static body Judy.
And underneath that we're going to put the collision shape closer shape to Dee and Michael it's shaped
hoodie is going to be a rectangle to skip nice and simple.
And let's use the extents to get a pretty good size that looks like that's going to be 22 by 19.
And it looks like it shouldn't actually be Santa doesn't.
So let's move that down to about here.
And call at 22 by 20.
Yeah that's pretty good.
Okay let's go back and see whether transformers that Transformers 0 1 point fall.
I'll It's a bout a peg's salaf Summary get a little bit bigger.
So this bit's a little fiddly.
But the key is that over here in the scenery we need Sprite as a parent.
We need static what to do is the child and colours shape 2D it's a child of that.
What we shouldn't do is have static body to DS the parent and Sprite as a child of that.
If we do that it won't convert to a timeout that has predictable results the collisions not the work
properly so if you're doing it and it's not colliding properly make sure you've got this kind of hierarchy.
Marino this office chair.
Now we could in theory just duplicate this and I'm going to make sure I move that parent and not the
child so let's put these snappy things on there we go.
And we drag of a chair over here.
And then we could say well let's just pick a new region so up don't use the mouse We'll zoom not scroll
let's say.
I don't know this small comfy chair.
OK.
The small comfy chair has a different colour and shape.
So we might be tempted just say okay well I'll just drag this.
But look what happens.
But I'll take her snap off to show what happens if I do this.
They're the same collision shapes and when I move it.
I tweak all of them.
So if we just duplicate each one of these We're going to get unpredictable results unless they happen
to share the same things.
So we can't just duplicate them like that.
So instead let's take a look and decide in advance which ones we want.
Well I've got a nice desk chair as well as some sort of desk.
I'm tempted to just pick this as a desk although if you wanted to you could do a left a centre and a
right and then also have this small occasional table here.
So I'm going to undo all of those changes and I'm going to do one large one one small one comfy chair
and a sofa thing and I might pick a plant as well.
So I'm going to fast forward a bit and just set those up.
Right.
So I've got myself two forms of desk and a couple of tables and you know what accounts some sofas let's
put a sofa in there as well.
I've put in a large TV aquarium.
I'm not going to put in the small TV because I'm going to use them as computers and I want the player
to know if I see that that's something I can use.
But it's put a so for him I can match it to theme.
So let's pick this nice black leather wooden one you're going to be so from.
And that's going to live here.
I've also noticed that my plant if I zoom in a bit there's a line of pixels.
The great a slight the office let's pick my plant and on the region I'm just going to.
First of all find it.
A disable the snap for a moment.
Snap mode.
None.
I'm just going to move the scale bit down there.
Perfect.
All right.
Let's save a scene.
So in scenes this could be furniture.
Now we need to go in and give all of these collision.
So take snap off for a moment on some of these is going to be easier than others.
Right.
These desks shouldn't be too difficult.
But we need to decide what kind of collision the plant has.
So let's start nice and simple.
It's got the office chair give its collision backs that's can be a collision.
To Dee.
And new rectangle shape.
And I'm just going drag the stance without grids snap on so I can get nice and centred so that one's
done analogy of the comfy chair.
So back then the static body and might add in its collision shape.
That is the most recent one I'm going to double click here and give it its rectangle.
Now this is a little fiddly and time consuming isn't it so it's a little bit of set up but again just
like you did with auto tiles.
It will be worth it.
So what I would do is just set up a couple more of these with you in real time so you can heal in doing
so.
New child node collision shipped eudi and this is not a rectangle shape and just drag the extorts.
And then just like before I'm going to fast forward it so that you don't have to sit here while I very
painstakingly move accidents.
Everything has a collision shape.
One thing I did is I made the plant have a circular tilting shape.
I don't care if the leaves stop the player they probably shouldn't unless they're made of metal which
will be a very strange plant to have an office and everything else is just a question of dragging them.
The right thing.
Now remember the reason we didn't duplicate the collision shape's is that if they are all duplicates
they're effectively the same collision shapes of I change one they will all change in a little while
we had to put occlusion on this.
But for now let's see what they look like in getting.
So save it just to be sure.
Go to scene.
Convert to.
Tile set and in tile sets.
I'm just gonna call this furniture furniture.
Dot t r e s.
No you have to put the tiara's.
So let's hide our canvas modulates of you'll be doing and I'm just gonna put some furniture so brand
new note.
And this is going to tile map.
It should be quite familiar by now and which town.
Please let's go back up to tile sets.
Drag furniture into here and here are items.
So I'm to start making this a kind of reception area so let's have a sofa.
I don't need to snap to grid because we already have a cell size of 64 so what I need to do is place
things.
I want a sofa in here.
Feels pretty good doesn't it.
Or maybe right here are the players on removable break here with the players.
But look my sofa is in the wrong place.
I need to rotate it for that.
I only use these four objects so this is rotate 0 degrees 90 180 to 70.
So let's rotate it by 90 degrees and there looks pretty good and let's move the player play a stat behind
the sofa we can't be saying.
And now this pillar feels like this in the wrong place.
Let's move that pillar you live here.
I've got magic tile selected time at furniture must remember you rename that.
And that's going to live right by the wall so here's what that is now.
OK so let's put a small comfy sofa here and maybe up here and you can have a plant house or take the
plant just to make it look a bit more real a sick place and start here.
And now we have a place to hide.
So with that there I'd like you to install some furniture.
Pause the video make your awesome level even better.
Don't be afraid to tweak the level like I said if you need to.
It's not that you know we've made it nice and simple and if you start changing the layout of rooms.
Pause a video and when you do the level come back and I'll show you my layout.
And welcome back.
I've taken the liberty of putting stuff together so we've seen this bitless come out this time from
an over here we have this nice SEO style office with a TV desk where the couple chairs are a much fancier
office here with nice chairs a little aquarium.
I've gone and change the size of this wall and put in a couple of desks here but some desks here and
haven't put chairs there.
In fact let's move this guard for now.
Guard which guarded you are this guard you start over here.
Let's put some chairs in this room.
Furniture and chairs.
Boop boop.
Actually they don't live there do they.
No no no other pictures there that you can see at a tables.
This is going to be a Voltaren So I'm not pulling anything there yet.
Maybe a security section but we've put up some stuff now.
We have now changed the layout of the level so the next thing is to make sure as can the guards walk
here.
So where do I go after my navigation point on to inside navigation to see and switch on navigation point
on but you'll notice we can't see it.
And the reason is flaws as in the ways and its hide flaws.
Make sure I have navigation polygon to be selected and what I need to do is make sure that the guards
aren't trying to get inside.
These little areas here so it helps.
So let's drag this a bit more like that.
And that's close stop the guards getting stuck on these bits of furniture.
So it's really.
Beautiful.
Excellent.
So when I just go through a few more times you might find yourself an area like this.
Now if I drag that.
That doesn't look good.
What I can do is add in a new splice and to do that I will use this edit mode control and left mouse.
That's on Windows if you're on a different operating system it might be something else.
Just check the tooltip So that goes there.
That one lives here.
Great another guard won't go down that way.
Maybe the guard doesn't want to go down to the plants.
Add a couple more and there and let's just double check in here.
You don't go into fair but you might go here.
And you know what.
You don't go by that desk.
So just really making sure.
That there's no easy place for the guards to get confused and stuck.
So soldiers do to do what you have here.
It's me.
We don't drag the whole thing like I just did.
No that's wrong.
I don't need that fact.
I don't need this want to go so far to remove a point I'm going to click this read.
I come here I just delete the point.
That's now an area where the guards don't care.
So let's tweak this a bit make a bit neater.
I do kind of ongoing here this summer.
Add a couple more points adjust.
That's pretty good.
Don't need that point of remorselessly right.
That's.
Nice.
Just a quick sanity check.
Make sure there's no where else they could get stuck.
I can't go on his desk area so let's just move you.
In fact you know what we don't need you at all it's delete you and delete you.
And that's a lot cleaner.
And they can't go inside these plants.
So let's add a point here and here and just drag that over like so and appoints.
So on doing some hitting control to edit points and just making much nicer shapes.
OK.
Let's see how that feels so I'm going to re-enable canvas modulate and get into the web.
Disable the floors again.
Haven't I got a re-enable floors.
Otherwise I won't see any light.
Let's try that again.
Okay.
We have some guards walking through.
No we all we haven't done is added occlusion to our furniture yet but will do that in the moment.
But already look this feels like an office.
This guard getting stuck at the here.
I need to tell you this but yeah look it's just get stuck.
So let's just tidy up that navigation to do a really quick and hide my floors.
Where was it.
It was right here.
Yes of course yes.
OK.
Hi mcandless modulate so we needs to add a point here.
Drag that down and drag that down.
And now he won't try and cut through that chair.
OK.
Let's give that a shot.
But the floors and caps modulate back.
And it feels a lot better doesn't it.
Now we're going to put doors in we put a whole bunch of other clutter in.
But already this feels like an actual office this feels like a place.
It's very dark obviously and later going to give a vision most of the play is going to be to see or
this furniture easily.
But when they do that they won't see where the guns can lock.
But already this is looking much better now what we do need to do is add play or add light collection
because I want that light to be blocked so to do that we have another fiddly bit.
Let's take a look at our office chair and you it to hide the shape for now and under office chair going
to add a light occlude to deal with a new light occlusion polygon.
Just have a drawer in where I want the light to be occluded souls go like that.
Needed to be too precise right now and I'm not closing all the way unless I do close it.
I can go into includer and you clockwise and switch off.
Closed.
The reason I'm doing that is I want to be able to see the texture but at the same time block light.
Let's make it nice and easy to see that let's do the plot.
We know that the plant is a good example of that.
So let's put this plot in the light occlude it truly had a new occlusion polygon and I'm going to make
sure I've got the right thing added.
Just make a nice rough circle.
Leave a little gap here before I close it and make it includer and I unclose it.
The last gap I did is the bit that it's not going to do unless you clockwise it.
OK so I'm going to save that I'm going to convert it back to its own tile that again overwrite it converted
it.
Let's go back to this level and just to make it nice and easy to see if it's working.
Let's put in a piece of furniture.
Put a plant right from his lap it's already blocking light so we know that's working.
And just as with a lot like a game.
Great lot more atmospheric.
So you remove that ply by right clicking on it and now we're back into furniture.
I'm going to add occlusion for each one of these.
I'm going to speed this up so that it doesn't look too dull.
Again at occlusions everything's a little rough and ready in places convert to tiles at the same tile
sat back to the level and now we should see.
All the furniture is going to start blocking light.
Now this is important because it's going to give the player the feedback they need right.
The game doesn't actually use the light occlusion to detect where the player is.
That's just feedback.
But if we don't tell the player the guy can't see you is not going to cut that they're actually hiding
by the Democrats.
Find some more way around here.
Cameras down here.
We had a camera in there.
Let's see.
Security cameras put duplicates.
It's really a camera in this room.
Final thing on the do is on make sure that the furniture is on the right collision masks.
Let's take a look here.
You are not a player you're not really Walt's you don't.
You do interact with a player the player will stop you.
I guess your walls walls really needs to be touraine doesn't it.
Ah yeah that's called Let's rename walls let's call walls to do physics.
You're now called touraine.
I could also make a phone at you one but let's not add an extra as you don't know.
Let's just give the good name.
A quick refresher on what we need to do with putting in any kind of tile set like the furniture.
First we can make the scene then going to add the sprites then we will add the kill the collision and
occlusion to as a child of each Sprite and then we will export as a typeset.
And if we want to make a change we need to make sure that one we keep that kind of rhythm going that
pattern going and too.
We always save and re-export that tile said if we just change the seam the tile set won't change.
That brings us to the end of the video in this video we've looked at how to make a level more believable
setting up texture regions and how to rotate tiles.
So excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.